Leios design: Perf & Tracing (#596)
input-output-hk/ouroboros-leios: docs/leios-design/README.md

### Micro-benchmarks

On some occasions, smaller units of implementation (vs. full system integration) deserve a performance safeguard. When the necessity arises, we will assist in creating stable benchmarks that target isolated aspects of the system, and do not need a full testnet to run.

## Testing a full implementation

This eventual step will stop support for prototypes and instead focus on full implementations of Leios. This will allow
for a uniform way to operate, and artificially constrain, Leios by configuration while maintainsing its performance properties.

Furthermore, this phase will see custom benchmarks that can scale individual aspects of Leios independently (by config or protocol
parameter), so that the observed change in performance metrics can be clearly correlated to a specific protocol change.

## Final remarks

As Leios development in all aspects is an ongoing and very much alive process, this chapter could only focus on 
mid-to-high-level items. Depending on the progress of various protoypes and implementations, this high-level plan
will need to be broken down and sequenced into smaller tasks. We will do so keeping in mind the result of those

> tasks should be reusable both internally, and by the community.

Reviewer: How should this relate to the implementation plan chapter (#592)?

Note that the PoP checks probably are done at the certificate level, and that the above-described API should not be responsible for this. The current code on BLS12-381 already abstracts over both curves `G1`/`G2`, we should maintain this. The `BLST` package also exposes fast verification over many messages and signatures + public keys by doing a combined pairing check. This might be helpful, though it's currently unclear if we can use this speedup. It might be the case, since we have linear Leios, that this is never needed.

> 

Reviewer: The content here is still very good and we should consider keeping it! Maybe we will (not need to be in this PR) expand it into _doing_ what is mentioned there? e.g. drafting that specification of relevant traces and their semantics in this section of the "Technical design" chapter.

observed network behaviour or performance metrics have high confidence, and are reproducible.

Conformance testing can be done on multiple layers. For authoritative end-to-end verification of protocol states, all evidence will need to be processed wrt. the formal specification, keeping track of all states and transitions. A second, complementary
approach we chose is conformance testing using Linear Temporal Logic (LTL). By formulating LTL propositions that need to hold for observed evidence, one can achieve broad conformance and regression testing without embedding it in protocol semantics;
this tends to be versatile and fast to evaluate incrementally. This means, system invariants can be tested as part of CI, or even by consuming live output of a running testnet.

Performance testing requires constant submission pressure over an extended period of time. With Leios being built for high throughput, creating submissions fully dynamically (as is the case with Praos benchmarks) is likely

> isufficient to maintain that pressure. We will create a declarative, abstract definition of what constitues a workload to be submitted. This enables to pre-generate part or all submissions for the benchmarks. Moreover, it guarantees

Reviewer: ```suggestion
insufficient to maintain that pressure. We will create a declarative, abstract definition of what constitutes a workload to be submitted. This enables to pre-generate part or all submissions for the benchmarks. Moreover, it guarantees
```

identical outcomes regardless of how exactly the workload is generated. These workloads will retain their property of being customizable regarding particular aspects they stress in the system, such as the UTxO set, or Plutus script evaluation.

> As raw data from a benchmark / confirmance test can be huge, existing analysis tooling will be extended or built, such that extracting key insights from raw data can be automated as much as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As raw data from a benchmark / conformance test can be huge, existing analysis tooling will be extended or built, such that extracting key insights from raw data can be automated as much as possible.
```
